whether you are talking about your
personal life
your political life
or your professional life i cannot
emphasize enough to you this slogan
talent is scarce
i think that all of grow up in a school
system
that conditions us to expect
another 40 people to be crowded into our
lives every september every year you
gotta gonna have a whole new circle of
friends and a whole new circle of
enemies and a number of new strangers
trying to eat lunch with you you know
we're conditioned to regard our
colleagues fellow human beings really as
disposable really as as easily replaced
and i think we're
we're very reluctant to learn this
lesson
as to just how scarce talent can be we
will blame
everything else every conceivable factor
will be playing
before blaming this one and then taking
responsibility for our disregard the
importance of it you know so we talk
about people's personal lives
people are very ready to believe oh
the problem is i'm too fat
the problem is if only i could get some
more exercise in the gym if only i could
be more muscular or you know more
attractive in this sense
you know you might think it takes a lot
of humility you know to to see yourself
that way it really doesn't i'm sorry but
incredibly shallow incredibly stupid
people with very little thought are able
to be self-critical in that way i think
it's much more difficult for us to be
critical of the society we live in as a
whole
and then see our place in it
and then think strategically and think
about our own kind of responsibility in
it also
you know
um
just
every day my girlfriend and i go for
long walks together we have long
conversations and they sometimes remind
me of people i knew in the past
um
that i've forgotten or haven't haven't
thought about for years
and you know
we had a conversation about
the way in which basically uh
the world has gotten worse and worse i
get email from fans and viewers the
channel who seem to feel that the world
is in some kind of terrible decline
politically culturally and otherwise
and
you know melissa had also heard from
from a friend this way and one of the
things i said back was no you know
young people today have no idea
what it was like for my generation how
utterly alone we were when we went
through high school when we went through
university you know i didn't know
a single other intellectual period i
didn't know a single other
like-minded intellectual i mean even on
really mainstream issues
in 21st century politics i never met and
knew a single other person who cared
about first nations baltics american
indian politics native american these
kinds of things and i was i was out
there looking i never knew a single
other person who cared about ecology and
ecological politics and i joined the
green party i gave lectures at the green
party conference meeting i was very
charismatic and memorable you know uh
person there i went and i lobbied city
hall
on ecological issues i didn't just stay
in my room playing video games or
something i didn't stay cut off from
society i was out mixing in society i
remember the one that really got to me i
never met a single other person who
cared about the philosophy of plato
aristotle any of the big names from
ancient greece let's just say generally
and i was i was taking those courses i
took one course
um at a 400 level you know the advanced
final year course they actually the
university actually made an exception to
the rules for me to take that course
because i wasn't in the right way i
didn't meet a single other person you
know interested in and you know my
interest in life
required and involved
um
cooperation with other people just
learning a language involves
participating with other people the
types of creative art
i wanted to pursue including filmmaking
including youtube videos you know
involve
collaboration with cooperation with with
other people i didn't choose to do
something solitary in my life like like
being a painter my aspirations whether
humanitarian political linguistic
educational otherwise they all involved
and required you know working together
with other people and i've grown up with
this crushing awareness
that talent is scarce that you have to
make the best use possible
of the few people who have something in
common with you have some common ground
with you or who have some capacity to
sympathize with you
and your ambitions in life so
branching off from just mentioning you
know
i understand why
certain friends in my life and certain
friends in melissa's life happen to be
writing into us lately saying oh well
the world is getting worse and worse and
i've been hearing a lot of complaints
about
social media like
tinder
and uh twitter and tick tock and the way
in which this is
destroying the intellectual capacity of
uh the american mind and the the western
european mind and so on and of course
you know i i understand what it is there
what it is they're complaining about the
people who who say those things
but
they can't imagine and i would even say
if you're my age if you're now
40 years old 50 years old six years old
it may be very hard for you now to
imagine even reflecting on your own life
for you to really think back to when you
were a teenager and think about how
alone you were
how utterly lacking in the kinds of
alternative intellectual perspectives
and personal experiences you were that
today we can take for granted that today
we can access through through youtube
through numerous other media as well uh
the the the people who talk to me the
people who've met me
and contacted me through this youtube
channel you know through patreon through
whatever messaging service you know they
are for that reason less alone when i
packed up my bags and moved to cambodia
i didn't know anyone who'd gone to
cambodia i didn't know what he wanted
done i didn't know anyone who does
humanitarian work of any kind
anywhere you know not cambodia
specifically not lost i had not met and
spoken to anyone who had any relevant
experience i did meet and speak to the
couple of professors i had in asian
studies and buddhism but they were
they were guys who'd spent their whole
careers standing around in front of a
chalkboard not going anywhere or not
doing anything and not having any
aspirations in life beyond having a
comfortable income
you know frankly ripping off
one classroom full of students after
another year after year as those
students go thousands and thousands of
dollars in the debt and learn absolutely
nothing that will ever earn them an
income and so on and so forth it's
really sorry it's quite a morally
charged situation even if it's not so
intellectually stimulating being in the
classroom being around to professor that
but i remember i did i did talk to those
guys now you know today obviously i
would have my fingertips even if there
were no
interaction
i'd be able to watch and hear the
reflections for people who've been
through that you know so on and so forth
and you know you guys may have noticed
here that
i'm using the hashtag and the subtitle
you know that the personal is political
and you know the the political is his
person
there was a guy i met um
on facebook many many years ago
and you know
the way i met him is telling
i was sent a facebook message from a
complete stranger
saying
stay away from this guy
he's dangerous
he's right-wing
he's
romantically or sexually involved with
teenage women who are much younger than
him he's some kind of terrible sexual
predator
i received this message and the person
obviously had copied it and pasted it
and said i the person sent the message
i'd never heard from before never spoken
before
and at this point i was not a famous
youtuber i wasn't even famous within
veganism i didn't have fame i didn't
have microfame the total number of views
in my youtube channel was you know
practically zero
um
but i had a blog that was quite well
known there were a lot of a lot of vegan
activists who knew my work as as texts i
was well known within buddhism but as
tara vadabotta studies and some other
things i've done in the past this is a
real turning point in my life where i
was i was just getting started
on youtube and you know this was not the
first time i'd seen this happen
even though i hadn't yet been through
what in the years to follow i would go
through again and again and again of
people making up stories about my sex
life people denouncing me publicly on
the internet you know i i hadn't i
hadn't been through that yet
um
but i i'd seen it already just on
what is it tumblr
you know the vegan activist of tumblr
and there were people who went after me
and tried to blacken my name on tumblr
who would later do it again on on
youtube so i i had actually already
seen this i've ever been aware this
couple times so i received this
anonymous message saying don't talk to
this guy he's a terrible person like he
pretends to be a vegan activist but
really these are his sexual political
models and i'd never heard of that guy
before either there'd never been any
contact between us whatsoever
so i get this vegeta thing
oh
i'll bet he's doing something right i'm
going to look him up
you know he and i became friends for a
couple of years
um and i think you're about to hear why
we became friends and how he became
friends i never heard of this guy before
i get this one message saying he's this
terrible despicable human being and
making all these damning allegations
about his sex life and you know rather
than me being prejudiced against them or
being you know i was like oh oh i'll
look this guy up i found his
back in those days people talk to you on
facebook i think today they really don't
it's very hard to talk to a complete
stranger on facebook by the way that
includes me if any of you guys in the
audience try to talk to me on facebook
i'm not gonna talk to you so i'm part of
the problem here too but i mean social
media has become less social in the
passage of 20 years but just even in the
last five years i would say everybody's
more defensive and distant
and not without reason anyway so i
touched this guy
and you know he i saw what he was doing
on facebook he was making different kind
of edgy political statements about
veganism and
you know he was saying that you don't
have to be left-wing to be vegan and he
wasn't left-wing you know and there was
some
kind of culture clash between him as a
relatively conservative vegan and the
far left-wing vegans who who surrounded
him so this guy he had a face
that looked like an italian american
movie star
and he was a bodybuilder
and he probably made himself look more
italian i'm not saying this is
intentional but like a lot of
bodybuilders he was doing the kind of
fake tan thing so yeah i never asked you
know he had this kind of you know he was
rubbing himself with some kind of
tanning fluid or something you know a
lot of bodies bodybuilders do that to
show off uh
show off the curvature of their their
body more impressively so that gave him
this kind of artificial
bronzed or dark brown look it's very
handsome face
and he was a male bodybuilder who did
stripping heterosexual stripping not for
a living not as a career but kind of
like every other weekend he'd go and he
he danced four women at a at a strip
club and i think he sometimes also did
uh
what are they called sorry we say stag
parties what's that what's the opposite
of doe party you know where women like
women are celebrating it's normally that
a woman is getting engaged to be married
and they have a bunch of
a bachelorette party thank you
so he would do these kinds of things
that someone says so the guy is
very good looking not just his body but
his face
he's vegan
i knew all kinds of details about his
life and so on
and you know i mean one of the main
things he talked to me about again and
again
was just how hopeless and depressing his
personal life was his sex life was that
he was all alone and he felt he was
never going to be with anyone and so on
and so forth he talked about the
isolation and misery he felt he was
politically isolated he was morally
isolated like he regarded people who ate
meat as immoral you know he was also
isolated in terms of drugs and alcohol i
mean he didn't want to be part of that
kind of party culture
um
[Music]
one of the things that's a little bit
unusual about him and i remember joking
about this with him i said dude
you are the most fastidiously clean
heterosexual i've ever seen in my life
like he was one of these guys where
his house
reminded me of my grandmother's house
the interior decor and the way in which
everything was spotless and strangely
colored it was this really weird hokey
interior decor style and like a lot of
vegans he was taking care of animals
there were like rescued animals oh this
animal got hit by a truck and then he
nursed it back it was part of his kind
of moral crusade so again for a lot of
women this is the ultimate guy he is the
macho man with a marshmallow middle you
know he's soft on the inside but tough
and masculine on the outside he's you
know nursing these animals and there's
not a single hair there's not a single
dog hair or cat hair or i forget if he
was taking care of chinchillas or
whatever there's no hair on any couch or
any surface
something like he was like oh yeah i
vacuum every day he vacuumed seven days
a week
you know oh yeah i vacuum all the
furniture of carpenter you know and he's
like no i don't know why people are i
don't know why people are lazy about
this just you know keep it up just do
the work obviously the guy had a work
ethic also for being a bodybuilder but
you know the the life he described to me
was so painfully pathetically alone
and he said
you know there were women
who would have sex with him but the
women who had sex with him you know
treated him like a male prostitute he
had completely shallow
exploitative
ultimately
kind of hurtful and abusive
relationships with women
he did sometimes meet women you know
when he was a stripper or women who met
him
on stage so to speak he did sometimes
meet women in a kind of party
scenario where everyone was a lot
younger than he was and so on he met
women in different scenarios and he came
i'm anonymizing this to some step but he
came from one of those rust built cities
in the united states of america he came
from a city that is not considered well
it's certainly not politically
progressive and it's
not economically upwardly mobile
and so on and so forth and you know
in every meaningful way he just felt
terribly alone
so this is a guy who and by the way also
he was economically successful he wasn't
poor he'd had to he'd have he didn't
need the money from stripping he did
strip as a kind of hobby and probably
also reward him for all this work he
does at the gym staying in shape but you
know
um
you know so he he he i think he owned
his own house city on his own truck and
all those things that
american men tend to desire
and you know he described for me a life
in which
you know he met someone he could even
have a conversation with
like once every 10 years
you know he said looking back at his
life there were so few people he had and
then partly why he was talking to me why
he cared about you know the the
connection with me and so you know there
were so few people he could talk to
there were so few people he could he
could get along with and even though
there were women who would sleep with
him
you know there were really no women who
could even have a conversation with him
over breakfast the next day you know let
alone have a have a long-term
relationship you know so
um
i see other youtubers
and you know i admit one that stands out
in my mind before making this
video is this remarkably awful but
remarkably honest guy
hiding in my room so his name is daniel
his youtube channel and his internet
identity is the phrase
hiding in my
room and
you know i think hiding in my room
really demonstrates this principle or
this problem that i'm trying to talk
about in this video i'm trying to talk
about the opposite it turns out what the
alternative is but this principle
this problem of regarding people as
disposable
of regarding people as as easily
replaceable
and
you know so he's lately told some
anecdotes he is now bemoaning his fate
and complaining that he's all alone and
nobody wants him
he had a certain amount of fame on
youtube which has been shrinking or
contracting dramatically
so he has fewer and fewer viewers and
less and less public interest and he
felt that he went through a period of
time when he had a lot of public
interest in his youtube channel where a
lot of attractive women were talking to
him or
messaging him and he did he did meet up
with and have sex with several of them
you know and he treated them all as
disposable
he presumed recklessly
that you know there would be ten more
women for every woman he slept with and
discarded this way and you know there's
one who sticks out in my mind because he
met up with her twice
he met up with her and had sex with her
i think under a kind of
no strings attached
scenario met up in a hotel room
but then this woman stayed in touch with
him
and approximately one year later
she started writing to him again and
asking if he'd consider being in a
serious relationship with her
she had a boyfriend at that time her
boyfriend became furious and she broke
up with her boyfriend dramatically
and went over to meet up again with this
guy daniel you know and again i mean
he's an awful person it's an awful
youtube channel but he is honest about
precisely the things that most people
are dishonest about and yes indeed most
men
are dishonest about and he had the
honesty to say that he kind of met up
with this girl and had sex with her
but all he was thinking about was how he
could get back to his couch
get back to his computer
and resume playing
i think call of duty one of one of the
current generation video games i'm sorry
i'm getting the video game wrong but one
of these ridiculous
you know high definition graphic 3d
video games that takes up hours and
hours and hours
of your life repetitively now i am not
here to
imagine or suppose anything positive
about this
young woman
what i know about her is daniel
she likes you
she's interested in you
she's willing to give you a chance and
she's willing to give you a chance again
like you know she thought about it for a
year and she still likes you and she's
still interested in you you know you
still have something in common or some
capacity there right and that's scarce
you know
talent is scarce but like to really
recognize you know what
it's not the case
that coming up next september you're
going to be forced to sit at the lunch
table with 40 new people that you're
going to sit down in english class with
40 new people and the school system
conditions us to imagine that there's a
whole new generation of friends and
enemies for you arriving
year after year like like clockwork
there's no reunion coming up when you
find people you have some common ground
with even if it's just that you know you
have some sympathy with them and they
have some interest in you some
curiosity about you
the word interest in english
unfortunately has too many meanings i
mean i guess i should say curiosity you
find someone who cares about you
someone who's curious
about what you're doing next your life
you know that's scarce talent is scarce
and you should cherish it you should try
to keep that person in your life you
know forever
in whatever capacity you can
i mean you know obviously i'm not saying
you have to have a sexual relationship
and i'm not saying you have to get
married i'm not saying you have to raise
kids with someone just because you have
this but like if you can
keep that connection and and build on
you know despite the fact that there may
be things terribly wrong with this
person you know they may have terrible
failings they may have terrible flaws
and you may be the friend who helps them
you know
address some of those flaws you know you
may help them you know develop into
being a better person if you stay in
their life if and if they
if they uh
if they stay in yours you know um
know we're having elections here now in
canada
and some people asked me as they always
do if i would stand in the elections
myself that would run in the elections
obviously with no hope of winning the
elections but you know you'd at least be
able to stand on a podium and
make your speech make your pitch
you'd be able to give a voice to the
voiceless or give a perspective
for some
political cause now i believe in order
to do that
i would need to have 100 friends
living in the same district of the city
as i do
so they can't even be friends of mine
who are out in the suburbs they can't be
friends of mine who are
frankly walking distance from here you
know if you guys know this but electoral
districts when you draw the lines on a
map
with an urban area it's not a very big
plot of land i would have to know 100
people who are renting or owning a home
within very short walking distance
of of where i live okay
now here's what i would say to you
it's not just that this is impossible
for me
now
it was impossible for me five years ago
it was impossible for me 10 years ago
looking ahead to the future
it's going to continue to be impossible
for me five years from now 10 years from
now 15 years from now 20 years from now
it's going to be impossible for me for
the rest of my life i'm never going to
have
100 friends
living in one place at one time i'm
never gonna have 100
colleagues
living in one place at one time never
not if i live in montreal not if i live
in vancouver not if i live in
seattle right and guys i'm not saying
this to uh
i'm not saying this to insult you
but i'd like you to reflect about your
own
lives this way a little bit
have you ever had
100 friends who would you know it's not
asking that much who would sign a piece
of paper so you could participate in the
elections you know you have to provide
your id card you have to do a few things
who would sign the petition
to let you
stand in election again knowing knowing
you wouldn't win knowing you're not
going to spend a lot of money but you're
going to say hey look there are some
issues i really think are important to
talk about and this is an opportunity
for me to try to shift public opinion
try to inform people try to have my
voice count in our
pseudo-democracy
you know just a little bit to do my do
my public
my public service
um
you know and again so i mean
looking forward to the future
everyone thinks about the sex issue this
way i mean if everyone thinks about
whether or not they're going to have a
girlfriend or they're going to have a
wife
if it's women whether they're going to
have a husband
if they're gay whether they're going to
have some kind of partner you know
and and a lot of us a lot of us think
about whether we're going to have just
one wife or we're going to have two or
three yeah sure there's that too and
there are gay couples are they going to
have a you know quadrilateral
relationship
you know okay on that scale
people do a lot of thinking about their
about their social connections right
they do a lot of thinking about being
alone
and then what's the opposite of being
alone what's being counter opposed to
being alone okay but
how would you
live your life differently
if you were trying to get to that level
of social organization where you have
100 friends
who all live in the same district
geographically who all live in the same
town or the same
neighborhood with you think about what a
monumental task that would be
ask yourself how you would even
go about doing it and what you'd have to
sacrifice what you have to do
made a live stream recently
oh sorry so thanks brendan brennan says
pseudo democracy i like that if you read
my book
no more manifest those write the title
of what it's worth it's not available
yet it's going to be on amazon
but i have a book i'm writing doing the
final edits and revisions now which
could go on for some time
um
ods found new typos today i got i got a
bunch of messages with typos to correct
from what he had so he's still he's
still finding tables and when i go
through it i find commas i want to move
and stuff like that too so i'm trying to
make it perfect which wasn't the
original parent book
um
anyway yes in no more manifestos
i don't talk about pseudo-democracy i
talk about the way in which our system
of democracy has produced the opposite
of democracy i introduced this concept
that basically hasn't existed in
political science before of the society
without polity
so it's a lot of the book it's a
critique of democracy
but an in-depth meaningful critique it
goes back to ancient athens in ancient
rome it goes back to
the writing of the american constitution
the american revolution
you know
it goes back to ancient china talks
about lord shang and sunse and confucius
so there's a lot of philosophical depth
and breadth and also a lot of the book
is talking about police brutality in the
united states where in the united states
american how that relates to
our system of education our system of
law and so on and so forth so book means
a lot to me i hope it means a lot to you
yeah it's just uh it's just
um okay this is this is my point
it's easy
to visualize your ambitions
in terms of things
in terms of palpable things
it's not just easy to be honest you i
think that's a pretty reliable sign of
stupidity
if you ever meet someone and talk to
them
and you say oh well what's what's your
ambition i mean however it comes up in
conversation naturally presumably it's
not like a survey and you're just asking
you meet someone and they say oh every
day they get up and they visualize a red
sports car that's made in italy you know
this this is their ambition their
ambition is to drive this red sports car
and you know
we see these kinds of cars on the street
here every so often depending on where
you live it's probably because of the
climate here there are a lot of people
with expensive cars here because there's
not too much snow and whatever
and i i always make you make jokes about
it they're not even really great jokes
but i always kind of joke around with
most oh this this is the meaning of my
life i can't be happy until i'm driving
a bright red jaguar like this [ __ ]
you know like oh yeah this is what i'm
this is what i'm looking for this is
what i'm motivated by
you know so it's not just that it's easy
i think it's a pretty reliable sign of
stupidity
that you have
aspirations and ambitions defined in
terms of simple palpable things
there's another kind of aspiration or
ambition that's maybe more impalable but
it's something like writing a book it's
something like
making youtube videos it's something
maybe it's an art form maybe it's not
creative maybe it's a status or social
position you want to attain in life i
was reading the other day about a guy
who was lamenting that uh
his father's dream was to become a chief
petty officer in the in the us military
and his father never achieved that dream
because he uh he chose to
take care of his own kid he kind of
dropped out of the military to spend
more time with his son and this is
really well gee you never made you never
made cpo you never made the rank of
chief
it's just kind of ridiculous to me but
no i mean it's a step up it's a step up
from wanting to own a red sports car so
you have some idea you want to be a
doctor you want to be a dentist you want
to be a pilot you want to be a chief
petty officer in the military there's
some rank there's some status to some
role you want to play i think that kind
of ambition and aspiration almost
inevitably leads to tragedy and
self-hatred and certainly
my professors uh here at the university
of victoria my professors before the
university of toronto most people i knew
with phds whether in england or france
or in china i knew a lot of people with
phds in in asia
most of them were trapped in the
nightmare of having lived out their
dream and discovered that it wasn't
worth living wasn't worth dreaming
either you know they found out what it
really meant to be a university
professor and have a phd and they were
they were horrified by it and discussed
it with themselves and a great deal of
self-loathing and disappointment as as a
result okay that's another kind of
ambition and aspiration but you know
what the most powerful and most
effective form of ambition and
aspiration is to have of all it's people
all right you know what swords
can't accomplish a whole hell of a lot
having a hundred men
who are willing and able and motivated
to make use of those swords changes the
course of history
right you can own a lot of pencils and
pens i mean i do i don't collect them or
anything i've always got a lot of them
around you know you notice that about me
if you come to my apartment you know
it's good partly because i've studied so
many languages you know what having a
hundred pens
it's not gonna change the world it's not
gonna accomplish much if you have a
hundred authors
if you know a hundred writers who are
motivated positively somehow to make the
world a better place there's something
they wanna change there's something they
have in common with you
where you want to you want to work
together if you have a salon of talented
people that can change the world
you know and obviously we think we think
of
shakespeare as one person right but his
significance arose out of many people
working together at every stage
including the writing right shakespeare
alone a shakespeare in a vacuum would
resemble a vacuum and all of his efforts
and artistry would disappear into a
vacuum he needed a critical mass
whether it was 20 people 40 people or
100 people to work together to make
shakespeare matter to make his writing
matter you know to change the world when
your ambitions
are not based on things
and they're not based on a rank like you
know a job title or
certification or something when your
ambitions are based on people
it's not just that they're more powerful
they're also more malleable they can
change
right
if you have 100 people
who are motivated to work together to
get you elected in government sorry it
doesn't have to be i don't care if i
knew 100 people here i'd be totally
happy to be some of the brains behind
someone else's campaign i could
ghostwrite their speeches you know i
don't that doesn't have to be my face in
the front i'm not an egomaniac like that
i really don't care i can contribute in
other ways to other political causes and
or whether it's a political cause as
blatant as participating in elections or
it is something more like humanitarian
work it's political and changing the
world but not
not in an electoral
uh way you know
if you have 100 people
who are motivated and eager and willing
and organized
to help you participate in an election
and let's just say it's an election you
cannot win you cannot win but you can
get up there on the podium and you can
eloquently speak for whatever the issue
is that unites these guys maybe your
anti-war maybe your pro-war maybe your
anti-torture maybe your
you know anti-vivisection or you i don't
know
you want to save the cows you want to
save the whales you want to save
something whatever it is that draws you
people together if you have those people
and they don't just know you
they know one another right there are
bonds of mutual trust and mutual respect
there aren't it's not like a whole bunch
of points united in the middle just one
point
you have a hundred points that are all
connected in multiple ways to one
another all of them have been out to
picnics with one another maybe not all
at the same time you know they're all
they're all connected one way or another
okay
once you've done that
you could turn around and you can
mobilize those people to instead
take on a humanitarian project you can
make a film
you can mobilize those people to make
change in the world in so many different
ways to do something creative to do
something politically significant right
once you have people
you have the potential to do anything
when you have a job title
you have the potential to do one thing
and when you have an object like an
expensive car you have the potential to
do nothing
okay talent is scarce i know i have
people in the audience of all different
ages i have some people watching my
channel who are 17
some of them started watching like five
years ago you know and i have people in
my audience who are probably more than
70 years old i i can't remember
seven-year-olds at least i have people
in their 50s if you're over 70 send in
more fan mail i don't i don't get that
much fan mail for people their 70s
probably because they don't write a lot
of email but they don't participate they
don't support me on patreon that's the
problem if you're over 70 you should be
surprised up here anyway i have people
um
i've people of all ages you know now i
am not asking this in a generalized or
abstract way
when you think back to your own time in
university
how many of those people that you knew
in university
do you wish
you still knew today
you could still cooperate with today you
could still
collaborate with today uh
whether that's you want to make a film
together whether it's you want to open a
bakery together so it's another good
example someone has some long-term
commitment to it you want to organize to
do something politically or creatively
or in terms of business you know you
want to do something
how many of those people that you knew
in university do you wish you you still
knew today
now i have a further question
like if you actually got out a pencil
and paper and wrote down their names
if you looked them up on
facebook
you just managed to find the name you
just searched
how many of them do you think you'd
still want to meet up with just after
looking at their facebook growth just
seeing what they've been doing in the
last
five or ten years
talent
is scarce
and as we get older
it gets
scarcer
there are very few people who were
politically active when i was in high
school
there was one girl i mean i can tell
this whole story it's burned into my
memory forever and you know
things changed i was a teenager myself
um
i think the second last year of high
school this was for me doesn't it could
have been third last year but no i
wasn't it wasn't really in high school
it was more like the middle of high
school
you know there was this girl i didn't
really perceive her that way at the time
but i could now recognize she was
stunningly gorgeous at the time you just
you're not an adult you don't you know
like you're a teenager you can't even
distinguish like good chocolate from bad
chocolate you don't have a refined taste
in life you know i knew she was good
looking but i didn't really think of it
that way i didn't think of her as an
extraordinarily you know good-looking
person and you know
i was a good talker for my age
and you know like all these people i
didn't regard her as a
celebrity or a or a model i didn't
regard her as anything i i regard her as
a real person and i talked to her like a
real person i talked to her the same way
i talked to a man
and you know
i didn't i didn't ever have a class with
her actually uh it was an usual thing i
had a really brief window of opportunity
where i think just for two days she and
i were in the same classroom it was like
a special orientation thing it wasn't a
normal classroom together so we were
gonna be in the classroom for two days
and i made the effort i remember i
really kind of lined up so okay so on
the first day i'm going to talk jordan
i'm gonna take it this far and then on
the second day i'm gonna seal the deal
and i'm gonna take this girl out you
know
um
anyway look sorry you know so uh
honestly it's one of the only women in
my life i've made that kind of before
i'll just be agreeing with you it's
pretty it's pretty rare i had to get up
and i had to get up and hustle to make
this make this connection happen and we
didn't have a whole lot in common and
you know you know we we spent a certain
number of hours talking to each other
and getting to know each other
[Music]
you know um
i didn't hear
after that i didn't hear anything about
her for years
i had a couple conversations that we had
some degree of contact
i heard years later
that
her parents had been fundamentalist
christians
she got pregnant with some guy who only
slept with her once and never talked to
her again
her parents said no no no they don't
believe in abortion she was gonna have
the baby and raise the baby
and uh
i mean i sorry i didn't stand touched
her i didn't know so that was
that was that might have been the last
year of high school to be honest with
you something like that if it was you
know you're pregnant for nine months but
like i think maybe she got pregnant
during her last month in high school and
the baby was right after that you know
her life changed
and
you know i mean the main thing i
remember about her of course are her
political pretensions at the time and
you know
i was looking for someone who was
interesting and interested in politics
and trying to make the world a better
place and i could sit here now and
ridicule what her political beliefs were
and her political projects i really
could but of course i was somewhat
ridiculous myself as a teenager
in my in my political aspirations and
you know
um
today i wouldn't i literally would not
be able to remember her name today
absolutely not
but at some point like like 10 years
after or 15 years of driving someone
said her name to me under some kind i
was like oh yeah right
and i you know i just i just did that
bare minimum everything i just went to
facebook
and put in her name and like there were
a couple people with the name and you
know but oh yeah that's the one you know
fine if you say
so you know
obviously no that is not someone i wish
i could i never thought i wish i could
meet up with her again i never thought
oh i wish that person was still in my
life i never thought that was someone i
could still be working with in politics
or someone i could get together with
romantically never i never had that kind
of nostalgia over here not even not once
not even for five minutes
but my point is
in my whole high school experience
that was maybe the one person who cared
about politics who had any kind of spark
of potential or ambition or
wanting to change the world make the
world a better place and you know i
guess i did kind of wonder if her
political beliefs and aspirations had
mutated or progressed past that
very primitive stage
and i had no idea her parents or at
least her mother was some kind of crazy
christian fundamentalist i had no idea
that was part of her
part of her backstory has she how she
came into this you know scenario
um
you know not to put too fine a point on
it
melissa and i have talked about moving
to different parts of the world
it's been a long list in the last couple
years what do we want to do where do we
want to live what kind of ambitions we
have and you know one of the differences
in different places is to ask
could we have any friends here if we
moved to this place would we just live
totally alone it would just be the two
of us and we'd be regarded as kind of a
hated outsider an unwanted eccentric by
other people if we move to that place or
is this a place where there'd be enough
people who have a lot of things in
common with us that we could really have
colleagues we could really have friends
even if it's just five
you know five 10 15 people who want to
share your life and have some of the
same ambitions and
you know want to make something positive
happen
um
now you know one of the possibilities in
the list
was moving back to the state of michigan
i'm saying the state of mission
specifically i'm sorry none specifically
because there were several different
cities in michigan we could
move to each with different
yeah
each entailing different advantages and
disadvantages you might say
um but something i said to melissa again
again about michigan was look you know
there are disadvantages to moving to
michigan it's cold in winter it's awful
it's not paradise nobody wants to retire
there nobody wants to live there at some
you know what i mean
i said but that is the one place in the
world where you melissa can be involved
in politics and you can stand for office
and run for elections and you can really
say you grew up here anywhere else if we
moved to oregon
all your life in oregon people are going
to say you're not from around here
you're not one of us i know it may seem
like the cultural difference between
michigan and oregon is not worth talking
about well that's not how or oregonians
see it you know they'll say you know you
ain't from around here
stranger you're some weird eccentric
from detroit you know and you're you're
never going to be one of us you can
never be part of our political struggle
and every part of our our culture so on
and so forth now i think it is needless
to say just to put this in the sharp
relief some of you guys remember some of
you don't i considered formally and
permanently moving to israel i
considered applying for israeli
citizenship which i'm entitled to
because of my jewish ancestry and then
permanently living in israel for the
rest of my life i think that's a very
good
illustration of the kind of invidious
isolation you could live in politically
you know
think about someone like me living in
israel
think about someone like me at least
hypothetically having a child and
raising a child in israel by the way i
don't i don't have to have another kid i
already have one kid i'm perfectly fine
living the rest of my life without
having another kid but hypothetically
you know
um i'd be a member of a subculture
within a subculture within a subculture
my status within israel would be that
all of the jewish people would hate me
for not being jewish enough
i'm an atheist kissing us
and of course meanwhile
the muslim people
palestinians and so on and so forth arab
israelis they would hate me for being
jewish
you know you're excluded both ways i
would never be part of the russian
community i'm not russian enough
you know
i am somewhat russian there really isn't
any community there i'd be a part of i
would be part of a tiny tiny
sub-community of you know aggressively
atheist modern secular intellectuals
in a country that's basically a
theocracy you know a country that has
you know state mandated religion state
mandated military service and that is
you know constantly struggling on the on
the brink of destruction you know it's a
it's in a struggle for its existence at
all times so as as unreasonable as
israeli politics may be they seem
reasonable when placed in that
in that dire context
um
but i live
with the same kind of
invidious
isolation
here and now
it's less extreme
it's less obvious
but i mean when i made the youtube
videos talking about how everyone who
lives in this apartment building hates
me
and i did that for a reason i was trying
to show a broader point and it's it's
hard to show the significance of an
absence in your life what i'm trying to
indicate to you right now with this
video is there are a hundred people out
there who should still be in my life and
they're not
all right there were a hundred people i
knew when i was doing humanitarian work
in vienchen
the capital city of laos and none of
them are with me today there were 100
people i knew in bangkok thailand there
were 100 people i knew in chiang mai in
various faces including the vegans the
vegan activists i knew which my people
who spoke english surely there were 100
people in
kunming
china you know there weren't a hundred
people but maybe there were 10 people in
dahong china it was a small town
you know there were 100 people when i
lived in cambridge england and when i
took the bus back and forth between
cambridge and oxford you know so we
could count more people i knew people at
cambridge i knew people at oxford i knew
people at the university of london right
any of those people could still be a
positive part of my life today and
they're not there were 100 people i knew
in france sure sure including some vegan
activists by the way at every phase of
my life at every stage of my life there
were these people i reached out to and
that i who i shared my life with and
showed that i was warm and encouraging
and and positive to right and each and
every one of them for various specific
reasons you know they did not give that
warmth and positivity back
in every single one of those places
there were women women who tried to [ __ ]
me
okay
and i know i mean it's so different the
way we see these things with the genders
right i described to you before the
beginning of this video i knew this guy
was a male bodybuilder and a male
stripper and he was all alone there were
women offering to have sex and some of
the women did have sex he did he did
have sex with women some of those women
were married there were married women
who went and met him at a strip club or
met him in a nightclub or something and
they were cheating on their husband with
them but you know there were women some
of them were women who were like
teenagers they were like 19 years old or
something and met him and wanted to have
sex with them even though he was an
older guy so they weren't married but
again they were young women who really
just regarded him as a one-night stand
as a very shallow sexual interaction now
the women i'm alluding to
i didn't have sex with any of them i
don't play hard to get i actually am
hard to get but in all these places
there were women coming at me and i
think you know we have to be really open
to looking at male and female sexuality
equally in these things like i think
those women who were coming at me their
interests and their intentions and how
we should morally characterize this it's
really
it is neither more black nor more white
it is neither
more evil nor more good
than you know men
looking for
fundamentally kind of exploitative
disposable sexual relations in the same
situation like if the genders were
reversed we should regard the same way
so you know i am not saying i was ever
alone
in this sense i'm not even saying i was
lonely you know
you know
famously i once um i once sat down and
wrote a german exam a german assignment
and i wrote that phrase and i remember
the prophet
being honest
so it was a it was a good-looking young
female german professor and she was
trying to sleep with me she tried to
repeatedly sleep she tried to have a
sexual affair with me
[Laughter]
i was over 18 but not much i forget how
young i was but i remember i wrote uh as
the answer to this question on a german
uh assignment in class
knee einstein immoralign
so this is kind of untranslatable play
on words where it's like you know
there's a difference you know i'm not
lonely
uh i'm alone you know
but you know in all these places um
i was neither lonely
nor was i alone
and
look i mean you can look at my life as a
succession of tragedies series of
strategies and failures you can look at
my life basically just being kind of
wonderful i mean it's not like there is
any particular triumph for a commercial
but it's wonderful it's wonderful that
i've been able to live in all these
places and have these experiences that
i've you know
been able to become the person i am
today and have the education i've
acquired and then i'm able to now write
this book and make these youtube there
is a sense in which it's kind of
wonderful even if it's just as a gestalt
you know the whole is greater than the
sum of its parts like even if you add
together failure and failure and failure
and failure somehow
it becomes this kind of wonderful
success it's this life that's worth
living and meaningful rewarding for me
you know you can look it that way
um
the point is i'm trying to really draw
attention to the significance of that
absence there are a hundred people
missing there
and in a lot of ways that's much more
than 100 people that are missing
and the only the only people this comes
back to the title of this video in terms
of in terms of
talent is scarce the only people who
even get back in touch with me
after not talking to me for years it's
always women trying to have sex with me
always
it's women who remembered me
they remembered me as an option
and then they think something like oh i
heard that guy got divorced or they
don't even know maybe he's single now
like years have gone by they're single
now like maybe when i knew them they
were married and now they're divorced or
whatever their situation is or
something's getting to them
uh dude that that does happen to me and
it does creep me out i'm i'm just being
real with you and you know with all
those things too it's like well i'm
sorry you know
where were you when i created leviathan
where were you when i was going through
all this stuff in my life well what
you're you're interested in me now
for this reason for this narrowly
selfish self-serving reason
you know that you think you can fit me
into this position in your life
now that you've broken up with your
husband or broken up your boyfriend or
whatever it is you know i i
whenever i mean i'm just being honest
with you
the the only people from my past who get
who get back in touch that way it's
always it's always women where something
clicked something reminded they they
reached out to
to get and touched me that way you know
i'm just going to take a moment to look
at your comments guys thanks for writing
him thanks for joining the live stream
so yeah
um ron sims comments he's referring back
to when i said you know if you can
remember the people you knew in high
school you remember people with new
university and then you take a look at
their facebook profiles how many of them
would you want in your life today so ron
sim says most of them are either
alcoholics druggies or just don't care
about the world and it's sad
okay so ron this is the only question
ask you is
how many of them
really display that to you on their
facebook profile like i'm agreeing with
you but i think the problem is way worse
like i think there are so many people
who are alcoholics but if you look at
their facebook profile they look sober
you know i mean i think there are people
whose lives are a disaster
but you look at their facebook profile
and you think their life is wonderful
like they think i just say there's
there's a natural misrepresentation
there that creeps in so i'm not
disagreeing with you with you
at all ron
but um
to be able to pierce the veneer of
respectability and know what someone's
really done with their life and and who
they are today you know that's that's
quite another matter
um
[Music]
okay one of the only times i was ever at
a party it was frankly it was a cocktail
party
it was a cocktail party in a loft
one of the only times i've been to a
party like that and there were people
there who knew me from high school so
this this happened once in my life ever
so melissa i think you've never heard
this it's not that great a story but i
think you've never heard the story it's
not the kind of thing i do
ever and i didn't know that was the
situation i was walking into i was like
go to this party
i was told i was gonna it's not worth
saying why i was at this party but i go
to this party and there were actually a
bunch of different people who knew me
uh from high school there you know and
you know they didn't they didn't but
they didn't freak out but it's kind of
like
oh
oh there was a little you know mutual
recognition
uh and surprise when i walked into the
room
and um
anyway the party had i think two hosts
maybe three they were roommates who had
rented this loft it was a big space big
post industrial space you got to split
the rent up between a few people and
this guy comes over to me and
i'm standing there on this very
self-confident
i'm much taller than him silently but
i'm quite still you'll see why this
matters the story and he's very jumpy
and agitated
and he's saying a bunch of things to me
in this kind of um
excitable
aimless way he's kind of i'm standing
there perfectly still
staring at him
and again my the seriousness of my
demeanor is part of what made this
so hilarious and then i snapped my
finger saying
i was certain i knew we
i'm screwing up the joke now
i'm sorry
i was certain i knew you from somewhere
you and i have the same coke dealer
and the guy he's all jumpy he's all
screwed up he looks at me and he's like
oh oh you know you know tom
and i said um
no
i was joking
you weren't
i don't know tom i don't know tom at all
oh
you know
uh
and the the funny thing was his roommate
was there
rumor was a very unusual character she
was a very
she was a very bossy very self-confident
person she would not she was not a mousy
pervasive person
she had no idea this guy was a cocaine
addict
she'd been living with the guy
and i think she had
attributed his behavior to something
else you know what i mean
i i saw him and i basically thought i
diagnosed this as a cocaine addict and i
confronted him she'd been living in the
same so it's kind of an interesting
little moment at a host party that had
long-term
implications to people involved
um
that's who you're living with that's who
this guy is he knows tom
so my point is that moment
pierced the v and you could see it in
terms of the other people reacted it
pierced the veneer of respectability
this guy had maintained even with his
own
uh roommates or housemates and it
appears the veneer he was trying to
maintain with the other people at this
party
so all i'm saying is to what
an extent so pardon me to what extent do
people intentionally or unintentionally
create an alter ego whether it's on
facebook on instagram or whereby they
would not admit to you these things they
would not you know so
yeah
um
okay so so so ron i'm still replying to
you in in a
deeper sense not replying to the wording
of what you said but replying to this
point your face okay i said before
there's this absence in my life i'm
trying to draw attention to right
there are a hundred people who should be
here with me now should be sharing my
life
and they're not
i think the single most important
reason
is that those people are ashamed of
themselves
and they don't feel
that they have a life worth sharing
now i'm a warm person and i'm a caring
person
you might not always get that impression
of me on youtube but if you see the way
i actually am with people i know and
care about in real life i am
but that kindness
comes from a kind of strength
when i meet people and talk to people
whether they're a complete stranger or
there's someone a known for 10 years or
20 years right
i have so much to share
like there's so much in my life i feel
is worth talking about and meaningful
and then i want to share with you
you know like absurd but just just talk
about like a normal kind of crappy
conversation with a friend of yours if
you have a friend and they're
complaining about breaking up with a
girlfriend or they're complaining about
a conflict at work with their boss or
something you know i'm someone who can
be caring and engaged even on something
that's shallow because i really feel i
have a lot to share from my own life and
i want to share that with you and so on
and so forth and of course obviously i
am even more willing to share if we're
going to talk about politics or history
or matters of real substance but you can
see that even on my youtube channel i
mean i'm willing to i'm willing to talk
about tourism with a kind of
philosophical real oh you want to talk
about tourism in thailand okay i can
talk about that for an hour you know
there's something i have to share there
and i'm willing to talk about gossip and
i'm willing to talk about your sex life
in a profound and meaningful and
seriously engaged way right but it's not
you know
it's not because i'm needy you know what
i mean it's not because i'm nosy i'm not
i really don't ask questions of other
people in my life i really let them tell
me whatever it is they want to tell me
and sometimes they get pissed off me for
that
because i'm not asking i'm not asking
the kind of intrusive questions that
they expect their friends to ask and
that i guess their other friends uh ask
that's come up in a few of my a few more
relationships but i go into it with this
kind of context that i have a lot to
share i'm not ashamed of who i am i'm
not ashamed of what i'm sharing all
right
i gotta tell you
the people i've known in life
including the people who got phds
especially the people who got phds they
don't want to talk to me and they don't
want to hang out with me because they're
ashamed of themselves
because they've accomplished so little
in the last five years of any substance
and what they have accomplished they're
not proud of they feel stupid when
they're around me they feel like they've
been wasting their time when they're
around me they feel like they haven't
been living up to any of their own hype
like the last time they talked to me
they told me they were doing x y and z
and then here they are five years later
and then
you know like you know
and i'm just be honest i have had people
tell me that like do i've had people not
indirectly i've had people directly tell
me that whenever they talk to me or
remember one guy said whenever he hears
someone else talk about me uh behind my
back saying about what i've been up to
he said he felt ashamed of himself he
said he felt he was living in slow
motion that i was out like living in
fast forward i was doing all these
things and you know he uh here he was
years going by and and not accomplishing
anything and nothing changing and not
not taking any risks and not living up
to his own hype now that was mostly
intellectually not living up to their
own height and by the way i'm not saying
the state you may know people right now
who say they're going to write a novel
and years go by and where's the novel at
they even say they're going to read a
book you guys come by haven't read the
book let alone you know writing a book
whatever their projects are or whatever
their aspirations are
and look so again i was just saying when
it's something like alcoholism or
cocaine
it's hit him right so i had that moment
at a cocktail party where you can break
through the surface
and expose someone it's kind of horrible
i doubt it i doubt it motivated him to
get sober um but you know um
i knew i knew i recognized you from
somewhere
[Laughter]
how can you have that moment how can you
have that snap in your fingers moment
and reveal that someone's a video game
addict
right
and i'm not i'm not saying everyone
accomplishes nothing in life because
they're a video game
some people accomplish nothing because
they spend their time
uh
on reddit reading gospel in other
people's lives they spend their time
watching reruns of the simpsons tv show
of the family guy watching situation
comedies watching movies like it's not
always video games you know what i mean
video games are kind of a convenient way
to get this a lot of people spend years
of their life doing absolutely nothing
in particular just
self-indulgent miscellaneous waste of
time with no ambitions
and again if they tell people they have
ambitions
then they feel ashamed of seeing those
people again because they haven't been
you know
i told i told uh
i told melissa about one of these women
and when she got back in touch with me
years later she probably was trying to
sleep she got back and touched me right
after i got divorced right after i split
up with mag's wife so it probably was
what she had in her what she had in her
mind but i remember that it was like
she hadn't talked to me for like six
years
it's like oh yeah
six years ago you said you were almost
completed your phd like you're at the
end of your phd program at the
dissertation
stage and like oh here we are six years
ago and you haven't
you haven't finished your phd and in her
case i i would guess marijuana was a
factor or just
whatever something like this
lackadaisical hippie lifestyle you know
whatever it is so look i'm just saying
um
people share their lives with other
people out of strength
not
weakness
and when people tell me
that they're shy
i say no you're not
you're ashamed of yourself
we have this full stereotype
that someone who is gregarious
and self-confident is a psychopath
i see this being said even about
salesmen that like a good salesman as a
psychopath or a sociopath because he's
willing to walk up to a stranger and say
hey i'm gonna sell you a pair of car
tires that's better than the car tires
you have four no he's not no he's not
he's positively motivated
he's motivated because he actually
believes he has a good product to sell
you he actually believes these car tires
are to save you money in the long run or
something and he actually wants to make
the sale he actually do when you're
positively motivated to do something
you're not shy you know who's shy people
who are ashamed of themselves
people who feel
like the product they're selling isn't
really any good anyway and you shouldn't
really be doing this job
oh
now you're starting to now you're
starting to get shy okay now it's not
that direct it's not that easy it's not
that simple
but there is a connection between the
fact that you are playing video games
for 20 hours a week
and the fact that you're shy that you
don't want to share your life with other
people you know you don't want to spend
time with other people or that you're
only willing to share your life with
other people when you already know in
advance
that they're wasting their time in the
same way that they're not going to judge
you
that they're not going to make you feel
bad about yourself that when you meet up
with them even if you just meet up for
coffee with no other no ambitions to run
in an election no plans to make a film
no plans to to to save the world then
when you meet up with them for coffee
and say so you know what did you do this
week where you won't feel embarrassed
and you won't feel bad about yourself at
all when you say oh well
didn't really do anything you know
the new version of that video game came
out so i played that a lot
so guys just you know most of you okay
you know me if this is the first time
you've ever seen this youtube channel
but you've watched
the whole video up to this point you
know me how do you think my friends feel
when they're in that situation and they
talk to me that way
whatever the project is whatever the
aspiration is whatever including i've
known people who were aspiring youtubers
i knew one guy who was a complete
[ __ ] such a piece of crap that guy he
was he was in a phd program that he
dropped out of he dropped out of a phd
program to make youtube videos full time
and when he talked to me we had this
long skype call he was a hundred percent
confident he knew he understood youtube
better than me and he understood vegan
activism better than me and he had all
these aspects he was telling me how to
do my job and i was laughing at him he
didn't know what he was talking about he
dropped out of a phd program to have a
career on social media and make youtube
videos and i wrote to him like it was
like two years later minimum i remember
which was like hey bro
where are the youtube videos at
you know like i remember used to having
youtube channels like you know
you you made all those posts you made
those comments you you were gonna leave
me in your shadow you were gonna totally
eclipse what i've accomplished on
youtube you ain't even got five views
bro what happened all that you know
oh gee you actually dropped out of your
phd program and you just became a
self-pitying piece of [ __ ] huh gee you
know
you know what happened what happened bro
you know whether it's that you're
talking to someone who's a friend of
yours about what did you do this last
week what did you do that what are you
going to do next weekend or you're
looking back at the last two years of
your life last five years of your life
you're looking forward to the next five
years of your life you're like hey bro
you know where's it at i make people
feel bad about themselves precisely
because
i feel good about myself
okay you think i have any regrets about
what i did during coronavirus
do you think i feel like i wasted the
last 10 months of my life not a goddamn
bit of it i am so grateful i was stuck
in this apartment reading books for 10
months reading reading books
and writing books and sharing my life
with you
you people
on the internet
through youtube you know are you are you
kidding me
the value of what i did stuck in this
apartment for the last 10 months
compared to what i did in university
like you know actually taking classes in
universities it's no no comparison it's
been absolutely wonderful it's been
tremendously meaningful it's been
tremendously rewarding
you know who gets real shy around me
you know who's shy
people who took the last 10 months and
they
you know they played the legend of zelda
on nintendo switch for 200 hours and
then maybe they played animal crossing
for 400 hours you know
um
[Music]
having ambition
involves failure
you know it involves being willing to
fail
again and again and again
not having ambition
involves shame
and shyness
it's a totally
self-serving delusion to think that
self-confident gregarious warm people
who go out and share their lives with
others
are
egomaniacs
or psychopaths or sociopaths or trying
to manipulate you this is the shy people
of the world trying to justify their own
shyness trying to claim that human
nature
is always shy unless there's some
ulterior motive unless this person is a
con artist unless this person is a
salesman unless this person is a cult
leader
the ultimate example of a so-called
sociopath or psychopath unless this
person is a charismatic cult leader
trying to recruit you this is the
dominance of the shy
in the 21st century okay
you're not
shy you're ashamed of yourself
you're ashamed of who you are you're
ashamed of the extent to which you have
squandered your own potential okay
those of us who are out here
willing and able and trying to share our
lives with others we do it out of
strength
not weakness
and there are so few people
who are strong enough
to reciprocate that warmth and just
share their own life in return even if
their life has you know
struggles and disappointments and
tragedies and setbacks and failures even
if you have to fail 10 times before
every one
project that succeeds there's still a
difference between whether you fail
with other people
or if you fail alone
if you share your sorrow if you share
your suffering with others or if you're
in a state of sorrow and suffering alone
it still matters
right
and everything worth doing
everything worth doing involves
cooperation with other people even
learning a language you can't even learn
chinese alone
um
talent
is scarce
you can be strong
you can stop being ashamed of your own
life
you can stop being shy
you can get ready to share your life
with other people to collaborate and
work with 10 other people or 100 other
people you can even make that your
conscious goal right
the problem is you can't be strong
for
anyone else
you can only be strong
for yourself
and then you get to see
you get to see just how alone you are
because your strength makes other people
aware
of their weakness
ladies and gentlemen whether we're
talking about your personal life
your professional life
or your political life
in this sense
talent
is scarce